Research Hypotheses: 
1. The North American region will have the highest carbon footprint from ecological footprint of consumption per capita in 1961 and 2014. 

2. Forest land will have the highest positive correlation with biocapacity, built up land will have highest negative correlation on biocapacity. This will be true for both 1961 and 2014

3. There will be more countries where the total biocapacity of built up land is less than the ecological footprint of consumption (ecological debtors/biocapacity deficit) than 
vice versa (ecological creditors/biocapacity reserve) 


Summary and Findings: 
Hypothesis 1: In 1961, the North American region had the largest value of the carbon footprint when using the mean values AND without. Therefore, overall 1961, as we originally thought, had 
the highest carbon footprint from the ecological footprint of consumption per capita. A possible reason for North America to have such a high level could be because areas within North 
America have such cold winters, leading to more people depending on heat to warm houses and buildings. Furthermore, other than heating houses, within the Northern American region, we can see 
numerous major cities that operate with huge numbers of carbon being used. With larger cities, comes more commuters; perhaps, more people are in need of traveling by transportation which 
lets out an abundant amount of carbon dioxide, which increases the value of carbon footprint. Although in North America, we can see a higher average carbon footprint in 2014, without the 
mean values it is evident that Middle/East/Central Asia has surpassed the U.S. or the North American region. Also, when looking at the average values for Asia, there was a huge increase in 
carbon values when comparing 1961 and 2014. This is not what we predicted for the results as we originally hypothesized the North American region to have the all-around highest values in 
2014. We can start to see why it makes sense the number of carbon was higher in the Asian region without looking at the mean values. The reason for Asia to have such a high increase and is 
the region with the highest carbon footprint could be estimated as simple as because of their large population or being the main factory of manufacturing region for the whole world. Within 
Asia, China has surpassed countries within regions with high numbers of carbon emissions. China being the largest manufacturing country is the main reason why their value for a carbon 
footprint is so high.

Hypothesis 2: There were moderate positive correlations between all of the compared data values (total crop land, grazing land, forest land, built-up land, and biocapacity per country. This 
was not expected by our hypothesis, where we stated that built up land may have a negative correlation with biocapacity and the other factors. This is likely due to flawed thinking, since if 
a country has a more built-up area, it is likely to have increased area overall (and thus increase crop land, forest land, etc). Thus we changed to a more effective approach - graphing the 
proportion of area dedicated to each category from the total area, rather than the area alone. These graphs show a more accurate picture of the relationships between the variables. Here, we 
can see that built up land does have a slight negative correlation with biocapacity and forest land is in fact the only variable with a positive correlation to biocapacity. This makes sense 
because though grazing and crop lands are typically not full of infrastructure like built up land would be, it still strips the natural qualities and resources of the land.

Hypothesis 3: Our third hypothesis was that there would be more countries that are ecological debtors than ecological creditors. This was supported by our analysis, in which 136 countries 
were found to have a ecological footprint per capita that was larger than their biocapacity per capita, and only 6 in which the biocapacity per capita was greater. A similar pattern was 
found amongst the world’s regions. Moreover, we also investigated how the world biocapacity per capita compared to the world ecological footprint per capita over time. The subsequent graphs 
show that since 1971 the world has been in an ecological deficit.
